
1. The text asserts that how we _ is linked to how we react to events that define
  an era.
      A) identify ourselves
      B) talk to authority figures
      C) learn about the world
      D) see the proper role of the state

2. According to the text, the term "global politics"
      A) undervalues models of decision-makers at the national level
      B) is conceptually more inclusive of all kinds of actors than other terms, such as
          "international politics"
      C) is the only term that captures the moment of time that is not epiphenomenal
      D) forces a person to have an overly narrow definition of politics

3. The Peace of Westphalia in 1648 established the idea of "sovereignty" in European
  international politics, a term that means
      A) the system of a hereditary monarch
      B) the right of subjects to petition a monarch
      C) the principle of the inviolability of the borders of a state and the activities within
      D) the principle of the permeability of the borders of a state and the activities within

4. A "theory" is:
      A) a fonnal model with hypotheses and assumptions
      B) a simplifying device that helps the analyst decide which facts matter and which facts
          do not
      C) a deception to get citizens to reach an unpopular decision
      D) both a and b

5. A/n _ theory is a set of generalizations about political and other realities that
      seeks to explain causal connections.
      A) intuitive
      B) empirical
      C) normative
      D) predictive

6. Ain              theory is a standard of the correct moral and ethical behavior about
    how the world should be.
    A) intuitive
    B) empirical
    C) normative
    D) predictive

 7. A _ theorist believes that state is the result of class forces.
    A) Liberal
    B) Marxist
    C) Realist
    D) Constructivist

 8. A _ theorist believes that ideas about the world are not fixed, but change
    over time.
    A) Liberal
    B) Marxist
    C) Realist
    D) Constructivist

 9. A state's history, traditions, and political structures are examples of the level
    of analysis.
    A) individual
    B) national attributes
    C) systemic
    D) global

10. A scholar asserts that movement of capital and environmental problems explain an
    outcome. This is an example of the          level of analysis.
    A) individual
    B) national attributes
    C) systemic
    D) global

11. Respecting the sovereignty of states and following the rule of international law are
    examples of the         level of analysis.
    A) individual
    B) national attributes
    C) systemic
    D) global

12. Globalization might pull power away from the state, but it is also a possibility that
globalization has what additional ability?
    A) To limit the abilities of IGOs such as the UN and EU
    B) To promote a global minimum wage
    C) To empower local groups who want to defend their position in this global society
    D) To homogenize global society

13. Some writers believe that the greatest problem with global governance is that:
    A) people will gain with global governance
    B) the nonstate institutions are not accountable for their actions
    C) capital flows are often retrograde
    D) the nonstate institutions are often no more than what Chairman Mao once called
       "paper tigers."

14. For many social scientists who study international relations, there are four kinds of
independent variables. These are:
    A) individual, personal, war, peace
    B) individual, national attributes, systemic, global
    C) domestic, national attributes, economics, human rights
    D) systemic, global, international, world

15. Constructivist scholars tend to assert that:
    A) all wars are the result of rapid system changing
    B) gender-based identity politics explains policy outcomes
    C) there is no single historical narrative; therefore, no single perspective holds the truth
    D) peace is possible if domestic transformation happens first

16. The _ ended the Thirty Years' War.
    A) Peace of Westphalia
    B) Peace of Preswick
    C) Peace of Weserplatte
    D) Peace of Miharte

17. Article 231 of the Treaty of Versailles:
    A) created the system of French and British mandates over former German colonies in
    Africa
    B) placed the blame for the First World War only on Germany
    C) placed the blame for the First World War only on Serbia and Austria-Hungary
    D) banned Germany from having submarines and an air force

18. What is the core value of the post-1648 international society that Europeans created?
    A) Political independence
    B) Self-determination
    C) Sovereign equality
    D) Freedom

19. What term best describes the dominance of a particular state in relation to all other states
    in the international system?
    A) Empire
    B) Hegemony
    C) Sovereign
    D) Suzerain State

20. According to the text, many historians contend that , also called the
               helped to cause the Second World War.
    A) rampant nationalism . . . scourge of nations
    B) Article 231 of the Versailles Treaty . . . War Guilt Clause
    C) unchecked sovereignty . . . Alsace-Lorraine
    D) militarism . . . traditional European politics

21. The NATO affiance initially represented an important United States commitment:
    A) to the defense of Western Europe after 1949
    B) to the defense of North America after the First World War
    C) to work with the League of Nations in 1919
    D) to fight the Taliban in Afghanistan

22. European decolonization after the Second World War began with:
    A) France leaving Indochina
    B) Portugal leaving Mozambique
    C) the Netherlands leaving Indonesia
    D) Britain leaving India and Pakistan

23. In which region did the Cold War have its origins?
    A) USSR
    B) China
    C) Europe
    D) US

24. What war began the era of modern total war?
   A) British colonial wars in Africa
   B) The Cold War
   C) The First World War
   D) The Second World War

25. The Warsaw Pact was created in:
   A) 1946
   B) 1922
   C) 1965
   D) 1955

26. When Vladimir Putin took office, what became more prominent and troublesome for a
   Russia West strategic partnership?
   A) Market capitalism
   B) Crony capitalism
   C) Authoritarianism and nationalism
   D) Militarism and Marxism

27. According to the text, what term best describes the new class of economic actors of
   post-communist Russia?
   A) NKVD-niks
   B) Oligarchs
   C) Globalizers
   D) Second World economists

28. Which is NOT a hypothesis for why the US went to war with Iraq?
   A) Iraq represented a serious and potentially rising threat to a critically important
       region.
   B) The US was determined to secure direct control of Iraq's massive reserves of oil.
   C) The war was the product of social pressures arising from within the United States
       itself.
   D) The Iraqi dictator, Saddam Hussein, was violating the humanitarian rights of the
       Kurds.

29. Constructivism studiesforces such as ideas, norms, and rules.
   A) material
   B) ideational
   C) concrete
   D) discrete

30. Most writers who call themselves constructivists argue that make
    society and society,- in turn, shapes our actions and words.
    A) our actions and words
    B) Marx and socialism
    C) capitalism and material items
    D) technology and production

31. For postcolonial feminists, imperialism and,other forms of power really operate at the
    intersection of
    A) gender, race, and class
    B) globalization and capitalism
    C) health care and what Marx called "a nation of shopkeepers"
    D) war and capitalism

32. "Breadwinner" is a traditionally _ role of working in the _ for wages and
    providing for the economic needs of the family.
    A) masculine . . . public sphere
    B) feminine . . . private sphere
    C) nongendered ... nongovernmental sector
    D) capitalist . . . social realm

33. A realist scholar might criticize the feminist theories as:
    A) being overly rational
    B) being objectively capitalist
    C) lacking social scientific rationalism
    D) insufficiently misogynous

34. According to the text, globalization _ undermine/s the global state order and
    state sovereignty.
    A) never
    B) may
    C) always
    D) must

35. The process by which a state interacts with the global system of states is called:
    A) the Delphic process
    B) the foreign policy process
    C) the goal-sorting process
    D) the rational-actor model

36. What state disintegrated along national lines after the collapse of the Soviet Union in
    1991, causing refugees to flee for safety in other states?
   A) Luxembourg
   B) Yugoslavia
   C) Lithuania
   D) Poland

37. Nationalism has served as an important component of state-building and for the
   formation of _ within societies.
   A) cultural interest groups
   B) a common identity and consciousness
   C) recognized ethnic minorities
   D) a shared identity and historical purpose

38. _ is/are usually related to what citizens expect from their governments.
   A) National interests
   B) Ethnic, or state-supporting nationalism
   C) Primal interests
   D) Civic, or state-supporting nationalism

39. The process by which the leaders of state set the international goals of that state is called
   A) diplomacy
   B) national security
   C) foreign policy making
   D) prisoner's dilemma

40. Foreign policy actors will often pursue different goals simultaneously because foreign
   policy connects domestic politics and international relations. For example, leaders:
   A) advocate both nationalism and nihilism to ensure vital resources necessary for
        irredentist medications to trade relations
   B) might advocate environmental protections to satisfy domestic groups but maintain a
        strong commitment to the Kyoto Protocol
   C) might advocate both parliamentarianism and federalism to placate ardent nationalists
   D) might advocate human rights policy to satisfy domestic interest groups but maintain
        trade relations with an authoritarian state because of the need for natural resources

41. Prior to the twentieth century,as a legal category did not exist.
   A) refugee
   B) national self-censorship
   C) national interest
   D) ideational interest

42. During the Cold War US presidents used the containment of communism around the
    world as justification for financing a/n foreign policy.
    A) arcane
    B) premodern
    C) expansionary
    D) postmodern

43. In brief, the phases of the foreign policy process are:
    A) examine; explain; exculpate; extract
    B) signify; situational; strengthen
    C) evaluate; extract; develop; act
    D) define, develop; act; evaluate

44. The four main levels of analysis are:
    A) general, specific, state, international
    B) individual, national, international systemic, global
    C) world, political, personal, state
    D) economics, human rights, war, peace

45. According to the text, factors such as pollution, pandemics like HIV/AIDS, SARS, and
    the swine flu, and weather patterns that can affect foreign policy are examples of the
            level of analysis.
    A) human rights
    B) national
    C) global
    D) individual

46. Using the attractiveness of a state's culture as an inducement to gain international
    cooperation is an example of:
    A) hard power
    B) soft power
    C) zero-sum power
    D) positive-sum power

47. States that have the political, economic, and military resources to shape the world
    beyond their borders are often called:
    A) intransigent states
    B) middle powers
    C) great powers
    D) adaptive states

48. A foreign policy tradition is an example of a/n level of analysis.
    A) individual
    B) national
    C) international systemic
    D) global

49. The concept of "sovereignty" is an example of a/n institution.
    A) constitutional
    B) fundamental
    C) issue-specific
    D) generic

50.                  are becoming increasingly important in the development and
    codification of international legal norms.
    A) States
    B) TNCs
    C) Nongovernmental actors
    D) Multinational corporations

51. The Ottawa Convention on Landmines (1997) is a good example of ain
    institution.
    A) constitutional
    B) issue-specific
    C) fundamental
    D) international

52. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights was the product of a deliberate and
    systematic process of      dialogue.
    A) imperialist
    B) intercultural
    C) exclusion
    D) modernist

53. The organ of the UN charged with maintaining international security and order is the

    A) ECOSOC
    B) Trusteeship Council
    C) Security Council
    D) Human Rights Commission

54. At the International Court of Justice:
  A) states may sue states
  B) individuals may sue states
  C) all decisions are binding on parties to a case
  D) states must take part in a process called fiat lux before the ICJ will accept the case

55. Which nation is not a member of the permanent five who hold a veto on the Security
  Council?
  A) US
  B) China
  C) Germany
  D) France

56. The International Committee of the Red Cross drafted which of the following
  documents?
  A) 1864 Geneva Convention
  B) Convention to Ban Landmines
  C) UNFCCC
  D) Bamako Convention

57. Amnesty International is an example of what type of organization?
  A) Intergovernmental organization
  B) International regime
  C) Nongovernmental organization
  D) Bilateral agreement

58. Human security refers to:
  A) physical security from war and violence
  B) economic security from extreme poverty
  C) a right to human dignity
  D) all of the above

59. Collective security is an arrangement in which:
  A) each state agrees to a joint response to aggression
  B) each state agrees to share crucial intelligence in the face of threats
  C) each state agrees not to attack another member of the affiance
  D) each state agrees to provide resources to a third-party group that promises to give
    protection

60. The European Union grew out of.
  A) a regional economic organization
  B) a regional human rights organization
  C) the SEATO Pact
  D) the Montevideo Conference

61. The Maastricht Treaty created:
  A) European Coal and Steel Community
  B) International Criminal Court
  C) European Union
  D) International Civil Court

62. The Security Council members that hold the veto power are often referred to as:
  A) impartial third parties to a disagreement
  B) the MC-5
  C) the P-5
  D) the P-3

63. Troops from several countries fought in the name of the UN in which of the following
  conflicts?
  A) Vietnam War
  B) Ogaden War
  C) Chaco War
  D) Korean War

64. What phrase best describes the global economic trend of the post-Cold War era?
  A) The globalization of capital
  B) The liberalization of labor
  C) The nationalization of production
  I)) The commercialization of information

65. When former President Bill Clinton said "compete not retreat" he was referring to:
  A) Limiting the abilities of IGOs such as the UN and EU to interfere in US domestic
    politics
  B) The U.S.S. Cole attack and the need to "Get tough" (as he put it) on global terror
  C) Economic globalization
  D) Secularization of global politics

66. The academic realism that emerged after the end of the First World War was based on an
  interpretation of the works of which writers?
  A) Marx, Hobbes, Lenin
  B) Machiavelli, Hobbes
  C) Smith, Hawken, Rousseau
  D) Engels, Locke, Plato

67. According to the book a theory is:
  A) the same as a hypothesis
  B) never the result of analysis
  C) unlikely to satisfy the criteria for rigor
  D) a proposed explanation for an event or behavior

68. The arena with no overarching central authority above the individual collection of
  sovereign states within which international politics takes place is known as:
  A) anarchy
  B) political community
  C) international system
  D) sovereignty

69. The Gulf War 1990-91 has been used as an example of
  A) liberal institutionalism
  B) collective security
  C) advocacy networks
  D) Wilsonian positivism

70. Which of the following is not considered a key liberal value?
  A) Tolerance
  B) Freedom
  C) Order
  D) Constitutionalism

71. What concept supposes that liberal states will not go to war with one another?
  A) Sovereign equality of states
  B) Balance of power
  C) Democratic peace thesis
  D) Republican constitutionalism

72. Marxism argues that     is an        way of thinking about the world.
   A) capitalism ... irrelevant
   B) capitalism . . . essential
   C) socialism . . . irrelevant
   D) political realism ... essential

73. A key element of Marxist thought is theconception of history.
   A) gendered
   B) immaterial
   C) materialist
   D) militaristic

74. Marx and Engels famously argued that history is the story of:
   A) war and peace
   B) class struggle
   C) survival
   D) ideas

75. According to Marx, the central dynamic to be understood is the tension between the
   means of production and relations of production that together form:
   A) the economic base of a given society
   B) capitalism
   C) the mode of production
   D) the political system of a given society
